Why don't you start that sentence again, sir?
Well, what about the compulsive collectors who have a real mental problem about getting rid of things?
Like Sir Thomas Phillips.
Like Sir Thomas Phillips, but they're old.
Oh, the Collier brothers, in 1947, wonderful jobs that was killed by the stuff.
Death by books.
Yeah, that's right.
That's exactly it.
Now, there was a man in
outside of Chicago named Harding.
Do you know Harding?
No.
No, but I've been looking for things.
Where would I find out about him?
Harding was a very wonderful collection of music over a long lifetime, like 70 years or so.
And he filled his house.
And as the inner city died,
his house remained, and in the end, it was surrounded by empty lots, you know, and bottles flowing down the street.
But inside the house, it was solid music collections of, you know, every scrap of sheet music that came out, and he got it, and the books, and everything.
Older material as well as .
What happened?
Well, he made a deal at the end of his life with the Bodleian Library.
Wow.
And Mike Turner is the person to get a hold of an Oscar.
We're going to England and Naples.
Michael Turner mentioned my name.
The Harding Collection is there, and it is supposed to have a separate room, I believe.
So this is a case of something leaving America.
Yeah.
You have to go back.
It's wonderful.
Going against the parents.
Yeah.
And it was done by Michael.
Michael found out about it and went over there a couple of times.
He wooed him.
Wooed him?
Definitely.
Michael Turner at Oxford University?
At the Bodleian.
We have to look at Oxford anyway.
That's wonderful.
Where approximately was it?
This occurred in about 1972 or three, and the books came back over.
The books traveled something like 1974.
Were there any
I think there were.
I'm not sure, but I can't believe that Newberry wasn't interested.
Oh, it's Chicago, though, Wes.
Yeah.
But Michael will fill you in on the whole thing.
Yeah, well, we'll be doing a number of, well, Carter Bolivian, for instance, again.
I mean, just in the subject, he's got 70, 80, 90,000 books, and many years of collecting.
Yeah.
I've dealt with him.
And I'm covering, I'm going to the auctions.
Yeah.
Which has been interesting.
Just to get a feel of what's going on.
Are you going to discuss Haven O'Moore's collecting style?
No.
Are you familiar at all with this one?
Only with the catalog and what people tell me.
I've never met him.
I've met him.
Yes, I am.
Good.
What's your sense of Haven O'Moore?
Well, all I know is what I've read in the published catalog.
and discussions with other libraries, which is more than an unorthodox figure in our field, and that his views are pretty hard to do.
Well, he wrote that thing for the Catalan, and that's why they called Nick Blackburn.
But the astonishing thing about the collection, aside from the character, which is so strange, the astonishing thing about the collection is that it was formed almost as an exercise,
Mr. Hagen-O'more may say that he loves these books and that they are as important as, you know, the blood in his veins or whatever.
But in fact, he was buying these books just months before the sale.
With somebody else's money.
With somebody else's money, exactly.
So it's not the same kind of collection as Arthur Hosen.
Do you have any sense of Arthur?
No, you mentioned Arthur Hosen.
There's a great collector.
Who stops.
Absolutely.
I wonder why.
Do you have any sense of that?
Because we are, one of the interests of my studies is motivation.
What drives a person to become a bibliomania or whatever.
But similarly, what drives... Art Golden went to Harvard.
He stops.
And he met Bill Jackson.
At some point he met Jackson, just when he was young.
Or maybe it wasn't Jackson, it was Rosenbach.
It was Rosenbach that taught Houghton to collect.
That's right, because in Ed Wolf's book, about Rosenbach, he does say that Arthur Houghton at one time was the greatest book collector collected.
Well, this is in the biography of Rosenbach.
Anyway, but Jackson got, you know, the young Harvard student interested in at least giving the money for the library in 1940, which was named after him.
But then, several things happened, didn't they?
The Gutenberg Bible at Harvard was stolen by a kid from Northchester Heights, and he fell from the roof of Weidner, and he
never recovered, or I don't know what kind of thing the Bible was recovered.
You know, I don't know this story?
Oh, Bill Bond wrote it up in the Harvard Magazine about three years ago, and then you ought to look it up.
How did somebody get access to the Gutenberg Bible?
By the classic museum theft is you wait in, you hide in the closet until the museum closes, and then you go get what it is.
You know, the Gutenberg, where there's nowhere to be seen in the Houghton Library.
No, it's in the Widener.
It's never been.
It's in the Widener.
It's the gift of the Widener.
I'm doing all my work on the Widener.
I haven't seen it.
It's in the Widener room.
It's in the Widener room in the Widener library.
Yeah, I believe so.
I'm only there twice a week.
Okay, in Harvard Yard, you walk up the steps into Widener, and once you get in Widener, there's another bunch of steps with sergeant murals on either side of a door.
And that door is the door into the Widener Room.
Or it always was.
I've been there for 20 years, but that's where it is now.
Of course, I went straight to the Reading Room with a computer.
Uh, and maybe they only open at certain hours.
I don't know, maybe they're... So the kids stole the Gutenberg Bible, and the Widener is built in a, uh, you know, it's an inner building, and then the courtyard, and then an outer curtain.
And he, uh, was in the middle, in the Widener room, and he went out the window, he went down into the courtyard, and then up the wall, she'd go over, and then he fell.
He had no Wideners?
Yeah.
What do I propose to do with him?
Oh, he never recovered to tell us.
Is he a student?
No.
He's a burglar.
He's a foot.
Yeah.
And so Bill Bond's account is there in the, you know, the magazine that's published by Harvard for it.
It's a nice magazine.
It's wonderful.
And it's, I forget what it's called, Harvard Magazine.
And it was about two or a few years ago.
And if you can't find it, let me find it.
Well, you can find it.
You've got people to find that for you.
Oh, yeah.
Sure.
What I really need are the tips like you've given me.
Well, then, the result of that was that the book was recovered, and the insurance company called all of the owners of Bloomberg Bibles and said that the rules are new now, and here are the rules.
And the rules are that the insurance is going to cost you ten times what it needs to cost you.
And you're going to have to keep it locked up in a vault or something.
And Arthur owned a newspaper at that time.
And he kept it for a couple of years, and then he just decided that it was no fun having those people show you a friend and enjoy it.
And so it was sold to a dealer.
Krauss bought it.
Krauss bought it, and he stocked it for...
He held it in stock for about five years, which is tough.
And then eventually all of the goods and goods got sold in 1978.
And I think at that time, Houghton began to think about what he was going to do with his collection.
And he's a very astute man.
He listened to his financial guidance, and looked at his whole estate was reorganized at that point.
He had just finished building a house, and he gave it away, and built another house on the next acreage.
And he gave his stud away to some kind of organization in Maryland.
You know, he used to raise cattle in the advertising of New Yorkers.
Wasn't he coining money?
His family was corny.
He was Stu Ben.
He organized and created Stu Ben Brown on Fifth Avenue.
And, you know, I think in setting up his finances at that point in his life, the decision was, hey, well, we need to liquidate that collection, and so we went off to prestige.
Can you tell me how long you've spent a little bit about yourself and your work here?
I've been here for almost 10 years.
And before that, I was at the Library of Congress for a few years doing odd jobs, consulting, and then I was at the National Cathedral in Washington for about a few years before that.
Speaking of Washington, there's a four-timer there.
Walter.
I hope you've seen it.
He's invited me down.
Oh, good.
He's also very proud of his Moirier collection.
Born by his father.
His thing has been the Espy place.
Which is an interesting collection, isn't it?
In fact, I think he has a place at the Watergate just to house it.
Well, I associate him with Watergate.
I never forget the
the day he showed up with a pistol strap to his belt.
And when the riots were going on, he appointed himself security officer at the Watergate.
Everybody says, I have to touch it.
And I talked to him on the phone.
And he said, well, I talked mow the air.
He said, if I get mow the air, just let me know when you're coming down.
I'm hoping to see Larry McMurtry, too.
I think he'd be very interested.
Oh, absolutely.
So now you're getting a feel for the people
Larry is a great bookman.
Not at all.
Oh, well, then I got a degree at Oxford in the middle of all of that, sort of in the English.
So, but I'm not a collector.
I just assist others.
Do you work at all in acquisitions here?
I make recommendations inside, but I do
I mean, the main thrust here is modern contemporary literature, which is, for the most part, not terribly exciting, but it's easily acquired.
I, you know, I bought, I recommended an acquisition at the garden sale.
We got two of them.
Oh, cool.
We got the, uh, Croissart, Lot 41, which is beautiful.
Well, you know, I would say the portfolios weren't all that exciting.
Yeah, I'm talking to the buyer of them, by the way.
I want you to know that.
That's all right.
Don't worry about it.
You know, Krauss had them, in 1974, $165,000.
No, I didn't know.
They went from $165,000 to $2 million of the sales.
That's a pretty good investment, if you want to tell the investment difference, isn't it?
It certainly is.
It's wonderful.
Quite wonderful.
No, and I don't mean to discourage us.
The folios are the folios, and that's fine.
I'm being picky because I don't like their modern west-end bindings.
The books won't open and stay flat, or whatever it is.
It's too bad they're not in there.
But the same is true of our stuff.
They're all in Riviera.
I think what people don't realize is that, you know, rarity and scarcity are two different things.
And the folio is not a particularly scarce book.
But there are a lot of them.
Sure.
As rare books still.
But Don Quixote, that one's a buck and a half.
The estimate was 300,000.
But there was not a copy of that book in Spain.
Oh, is it going to Spain?
It's going to the Spanish collector, whose identity I don't know, and I'm told if I press high enough, I can find out.
The major Spanish private collector.
There shouldn't be a copy of that.
I think there were only six extra.
So that, now that's a pretty scarce, pretty scarce.
So when it went for a million and a half, you know.
That's when I would say this is right where it should happen.
Well, how do you feel now?
The focus is 20th century.
a lot of views, I guess, that are expanding the focus.
I do.
I think that the special collections of a major university that has over 50,000 students and a massive research faculty oriented toward research, one of the Pope or a student, cannot just narrowly focus exclusively in any area, although it must
have its strength in an area, and that's what ours is.
We have a young, new German professor who was hired from Yale, and he wants material to work within this library, and that should not be ignored.
Of course, we have wonderful
But I think you want to go back to the centuries as much as before 1900.
I think what you're suggesting is that perhaps you should widen the scope to include.
The scope is there.
The emphasis is in the 20th century.
We occasionally go to the garden sale when we can afford it.
And we had some fun.
We were able to buy.
Now, did you do that yourself with your dealer?
We went through an agency.
We probably spoke through agents.
Who did you use for that?
Do you remember?
Um, somebody in the East Coast.
That's a good deal.
Because you really don't want to tip off your head that it's Texas.
That's right.
Do things contentious.
Put on my boots and get my hat and walk into Sotheby's.
Say I'll bid on that.
Where are you from?
I grew up in Ohio.
You mean where?
Ohio, in the Middle West.
I went to Hanover College, which is Indiana.
I started after 10 years or so, 15 years, I went over to Oxford and studied to do that.
And that's it.
A question I've asked other people who are new to the 80s.
Are you an assimilated Texan?
Yeah, I am.
I like it very much.
And I was very surprised.
My eastern view of Texas before I came in was very,
Well, first of all, I was amazingly uninformed about this place.
Considering that I was in the business, I had no real understanding about what was here in this library.
And most people don't.
I mean, they realize that there's a lot of good modern literature, I'm sure.
And, uh, I suppose they know that it would be the survival here, but all the other, you know, parsons.
Uh, and, you know, and the geography of the place.
I, of course, thought of it, the landscape of the Panhandle, and all of that, and, uh, all of the population that goes with that.
Um, the summer tree, uh, last picture show.
Okay, and here I am in this luscious
Hill Country with a river going through and a clean new building.
And it was a booming economy in the U.S.
area.
The only thing I find irritating is the great teaching.
The lack of art and the vast universal community.
How are the professionals?
Are you stimulated by this?
Very.
And there's a lot of activity.
in relation to the collections.
We're not just sitting here in isolation.
People come and go here.
We're, you know, we have a series of people giving lectures in relation to us through the spring right now.
And there's a constant interaction professionally with the world of lives, helping people to publish.
You came after the great boom, the window of opportunity.
Well, I was here for four times, which was a lot of money.
And one might say that the boom was only just ended.
The first time it was, what, 86?
86, yeah.
You're right.
That really did bring a stamp, didn't it?
I've heard the... One person has described a phrase that went around here as a quest for instant ideas.
Oh, sure.
But that's an old idea for us.
That goes back 30 or 40 years, and the whole history of the HRC is covered with that kind of printing.
If you look at the letters that were written to T. Belles by Hayward in the 60s about us, that's expressed there.
I mean, treasures from Great Britain have been crossing the Atlantic for years.
Oh, sure.
J.P.
Morgan.
He had a better sense of PR.
You got Alice in Wonderland and gave it back.
You're talking about Rosenbach.
Rosenbach.
But Morgan, didn't Morgan have something to do with it?
I don't know.
He gave something back.
He bought something and gave it back.
I think he did.
I mean, that's a nice sense of P.I.
That might endear you a little bit.
But the British were particularly... You should listen to Turner on this subject, Tom's predecessor.
How does one reach this?
You have to write him a note, or swing by.
Where did he write?
He lives on a street called Crickley Care.
Crickley Care.
But I think the courteous thing is a note.
And he would be a great, you should interview him.
Mention my name.
4215.
4215, prickly pear.
78731.
78731, that's his phone number?
No phone.
What is this?
You mean no phone known?
No, but he has a phone, but he doesn't give it out locally, only to his friends.
This suggests an acrimonious departure.
I think it does, and yet there's probably some proven suggestion, but the fact is he has deliberately chosen to
to cut the connection and not have to deal with the ongoing activity in the HRC and not take part in, let's say, not take a Mendelsohn role in relation to the HRC as well.
You did the same thing about the FND in 1980.
You really stopped, you know, and I think when you get the scene, you'll refer to
as kind of paving his career when the person he replaced didn't leave.
Well, I think he's the one who coined the phrase, the ransom signal, isn't he?
Yeah.
What do you think he meant by that?
Oh, you'll have to ask him.
Good answer.
That's an explanation.
You won't touch that one.
Well, I think it should be fair to Deckard Turner.
But when it was thrown around, I mean, what was the reaction to it?
Well, what did people think he used to write when he was thrown around?
Nobody really replaced it, if that's what you mean.
Yeah.
But he wrote about this.
Yes.
But where might he have written about it?
He issued a series of occasional notes called HRC notes.
Maybe we'll find some of them right here.
There's some right here, if you want to check into the reading room.
It looked too late.
I'm surprised they haven't mentioned to you, because they did call sometime there was... Who would have mentioned them to me?
Booksellers.
Not local, but not the HSC notes, though.
They would have been published periodically during this tenure?
No.
They never even thought about it.
What were they?
They were, at various levels of organization, they were striking up his thoughts and things about the HRC, about , about classes of literature.
And he was always willing to say what he thought about.
Has he described the ranking syndrome?
If that's what you need to get a hold of it.
Well, I'd like to say, just to get a sense.
I mean, he does fit into the continuum.
Oh, it's important.
And it's important.
And it's been suggested, perhaps, that maybe he was a person for his job.
He just couldn't fit in with the scheme.
the program, which was established and set in motion, and by and large, successful.
I mean, we were sitting surrounded by a successful event like that.
What was your perception of what was going on here at Texas?
Not the perception of Texas, per se, that was one idea in terms of acquisition, in terms of what the British might describe as a frenzy of that.
Well, your question is about Turner, or is it about the HRC?
Yeah, it's about the HRC.
Well, I think the allegation of indiscriminate politically has some kind of
And you must understand that the man that created this book was a tremendous catalytic idea-theist, and not so much an organizer, a methodical administrator.
Tremendous power.
And the idea, you know, I want to make a center where the humanities can be studied in the broadest sense, which meant that at one point the people in the humanities, I told you, in the center were given the administrative control of every painted canvas in the university.
That was, you know, and that was because Ransom decided that that was part of the mandate of what we wanted here.
When I arrived here, there was a collection of Alaskan screen-draw carvings, whatever it's called.
Okay.
Beautiful.
And very valuable.
When I arrived here, the... Still here?
No.
Oh, no.
It's where it should be.
It's in the museum.
It was here in the library.
Yeah, it was upstairs.
Part of our Alaskan collection.
Okay.
Did they make money for that collection, did you think?
That was a, I think that was a gift.
But there were collections that were purchased.
We were given another collection of patent models.
Okay.
Oh, they're fascinating.
Patent models.
Until 1922, when the system was changed, in order to acquire a patent on your invention, you were required to provide a miniature model of your invention and let or show why you couldn't.
I think that was interesting.
Well, they have a whole series of Smithsonian.
Well, the point is that they ended up with warehouses full of the models.
In 1922, they said, let's forget the model.
We'll just have the lawyers and the papers.
And then they got rid of them.
And I think I counted seven different groups owned that collection in the intervening years.
Each one acquiring it with the idea that they're fortunate to be made.
and each one being defeated by the inventory and, you know, controlling.
What is it?
What are you going to sell?
Oh, I want it.
Where's the washing machine?
I want a washing machine.
You know, not being able to find it, whatever.
And eventually, two young men gave us a thousand of them, dreaming that we would then want the rest of them.
And so they kicked around here for a number of years until Turner and I
got rid of them right now and he's here.
There are other collections which are perhaps marginally more justifiable.
There's a collection of maps.
Okay.
They're beautiful.
They're certainly a humanity subject, all right?
It's not scientific as well.
But in this library, there are only, let's say, a hundred such maps.
And it's not a map collection.
There's no depth there.
It doesn't constitute a real research tool.
The most it constitutes is the occasional letter that I get saying, I know that you have the Portland Atlas of the west coast of Africa.
I need to study it.
And that's it.
So perhaps that should not have been purchased.
No, was it purchased?
on its own merits, or part of a life that made it kind of come in the net, so to speak.
It came in the net.
Oh yes, we're going to, you know, the thinking was, we're going to collect nets, and we're going to have a significant net collection, and we're going to start by buying this.
So we have these targets of opportunity, shall we say.
Yeah.
Fire away.
But then again, if you're starting from ground zero, I mean, I can't drop that entirely.
They're very, it's very nice to have those nets.
Yeah.
But you can't... I mean, we've grown up now.
We can't do that.
There isn't enough money, not to mention the base, to collect that way.
You've got to decide... If something's going to give them to us, that's one thing.
But if you're going to take the precious dollars, which are limited, very, very limited, and every year you turn down 80% of what you want,
because you can't buy.
Do you think in the beginning they turned down 80%?
No.
In the beginning, they budgeted half a million dollars a year.
Well, no, I'm talking about what was budgeted in the day.
In actual spending, it was a couple of million dollars a year.
And that's just the statement.
And then you had the benefactors, the most generous.
The food.
But that's an area I don't know about.
You'll have to get that somewhere else.
But that's fine.
I don't see the history of manufacturers here that you mentioned.
Well, there's a piece in the New York Times, and I start with that.
It's the first mention of Harry Ransom in the New York Times index.
It was January 1, 1973.
First time there's a profile of them.
And the index, it may be.
And I was talking to Alan Gribben, who's doing the biography of Ransom, and I said, have you found anything wrong with it?
He said, no, that's the earliest.
You know, and he's doing the biography, so, you know, Harry Ransom had been at it for 15 years by the time the Times got around to writing a profile about him, and the occasion for this was the purchase of the Maximilian letters, which meant the three noses out of shape, because they didn't even know they were on the market, and all of a sudden Texas got it for almost $25,000.
But in that Times piece, which I brought a copy of, it's in my briefcase,
It says, in 15 years, Texas has spent $45 million on acquisitions, 30 million of which... 30 million of which... What does that mean?
You're reading on-site sources of manufacturing.
I would read it.
Well, maybe that means some other fund that the university might have.
like what's called the permanent university.
Hmm.
Ask Allen?
No.
No, I mean, I was driven.
Yeah, driven.
I think we asked him now.
But anyways.
I don't want to split here.
Well, and I'm not making an issue out of this.
It's just that I can't name names.
I'm not either.
I can't name names.
And one of the things, one of the characteristics of this institution and its growth is that there aren't benefactors standing around very much.
You know, most of the acquisitions that I know about are purchases.
Really?
Yeah, in my time, the only big major deal was in Seattle.
It was a wonderful game.
Of course I know that Mr. Perot was left there.
No.
Mr. Perot lent us the money for 4th.
He lent us?
Yeah.
I thought he'd take it, no?
So that's not a gift from Mr. Perot.
So that money's being paid back?
Yeah.
With interest?
No, it was interest.
That money has been paid back, and there have been gifts.
You're right, and I like to acknowledge that.
There have been gifts for portions of it, like $6 million, which is not inconsiderable, which is significant.
But for the most part, our acquisitions, my understanding of our acquisitions, and I'm not the first to ask this person, but my understanding is that they would have been paid with some kind of funding
whether it's in the budget or not in Syria.
Which makes it, to me, all the more impressive that you kept that kind of a mandate for the state legislature.
You know, up in Massachusetts, we can't even get him to get a personal crisis up there.
What is your schedule like?
Are you off for lunch or something like that at this point?
I'm supposed to be somewhere else.
But I don't want to end it.
Have you come back?
It's been delightful.
I'd like to...
Why don't you go send a postcard or FedEx to Turner?
Well, if I have to come back, I will, you know.
I think that he's a major person who takes a collection.
I've asked a couple times how I can get in touch with him.
Well, I have no way to get the phone number for you.
They're an isolated gem that they aren't... Well, the point I'd make about the Maximilian one is that they're a wonderful isolated gem of manuscript material, but they don't form a part of what we're recognized for in terms of a body of strong materials, which is the 19th and 20th century American, British, and French literature.
But nevertheless, you know, if the material's there, it's available for use and things.
And the kind of uses that are made of the manuscript collections, I think, might be particularly interesting.
Well, I think there are any number of books, I mean, 50 or 60 years.
I don't remember, but quite an impressive number of books published each year.
Yeah, per annum.
Directly.
We haven't got that list yet.
Someone's supposed to give us that list.
Can I have this for me?
Yes, that's a list of books and dissertations published out of research done with our manuscript holding since we began teaching records like that.
How current is that?
This published version dates from 1983, and I have a separate accumulation for 84 through now.
No, it's just on a database.
It's just information I compile as books and monographs come in for our annual report.
Pardon?
Do you ever do a printout?
Yeah, I can do a printout for you.
This is what it's all about.
This is what collecting is all about.
But you can use that booklet, for example, to determine which of our collections are most heavily used in terms of publication results.
And you can also get a handle on which scholars have come back to the Center over and over and over again for one publication after another.
I think Stanley Weintraub holds the record for scholar-making.
the heaviest use of our holdings that has resulted in publications.
And the D.H.
Lawrence collection is our single most heavily used collection.
And to the extent that it's a gauge at all, the long list of publications under D.H.
Lawrence is really quite impressive.
And I would like to bring in Poland.
I mean, you have a few books on it.
It's behind glass very well there.
The problematics, what comes to mind.
On the third floor, uh-huh.
Yeah.
And my book will be published, we hope, next year.
Uh-huh.
And I would like to make it as current as I can.
Yeah.
That's no big problem.
The reason I mentioned Maximilian, I appreciate that that reflects
But it is interesting, in terms of the fact that it did occasion this piece in the New York Times, which represented the first time that Dr. Ransom was profiled in the New York Times.
And I driven to confirm that.
I said, did you find anything earlier than that?
He said, no, that's the first thing.
So for 15 years, he had been very quietly
Not so quietly, but he finally did get the attention of the New York Times in 1973, the occasion was this.
I think he probably attracted the attention of the London Times, sooner than that.
Without any question.
Yeah, but the American collecting community didn't fully recognize it.
And I am going to try and capture some of the flavor of these pioneer days, which I guess is what I'm going to describe here in Texas.
I don't know if I'll be able to help you out there.
You're going to need to get that approval from Tom's name.
Okay, I'm just seeing it at two 50s.
Yeah, and the other handicap you're working on there, which if it were material cataloged into the collections, is that I could not photocopy any for you, so you would supply an authorization from the copyright.
That's part of the rule.
You might be interested just to look over
All of these we've set up for the Museum of Amos for collections, and those will be changed slightly.
But Dr. Staley, did you take quotes from the letters?
Yeah.
About several letters, and that is being published.
And there it's been published.
Okay.
Yeah, but they'll all have to get proof.
Maybe I will too.
Yeah.
before using it?
Well, for the reason I want Dr. Staley's authority to supply you copies from our collection files is purely an administrative one.
And then I just segued into if you were requesting copies from our catalog names for collections, our policy would require me first to have you obtained
written authorization for better duplications from the author of the manuscript he wrote twice to be copied or from that author's literary executor or the person who has inherited the copyright back to that person.
And in the cases of Ransom, Schwartz, and Feldman, all of these people are dead.
Well, that Harry Ransom's literary interest, his copyrights, would be retained by his widow.
And because we're dealing with a large body of literary manuscript material that has a large commercial potential in some instances, we've taken this extra step of protecting the copyright holder's interest against the scholars' interest in gleaning information from the material as sort of a balance between our responsibilities
to the people who entrust this material to our care and the scholarly community for him, for his use, for collections.
So if I want to do some research here, I really have to come and see you.
I'm not talking about that, right?
Yes, yeah.
Request to work with HRC Manus for pulling to come through this office.
And I handle all the paperwork and prize people
about what the nature of our holdings do and how they can find their best practices.
And we get about 350 new requests each year to use our manuscript holdings.
And these are for serious research projects as opposed to people coming in and being interested in a certain body because it's simply out of a personal interest.
It's a favorite author or they just want to see someone hanging out.
And we do, while we encourage people who want to use large quantities of materials or who are working on very broadly defined projects to come here to conduct their initial research, we will make photocopies of selected items available on loan for as long as someone needs them for their research according to the procedures I outlined to you earlier.
So we tried to meet the needs of the scholarly community at a number of different levels.
Okay, I can quickly pull the Maximilian Carlotta letters for you, or at least a folder of them, and you can look at them.
I really don't want you to do a major treatment.
I know.
It's just that I'd like to be able to say it's 15 years later.
Yeah, they're here, and they've been published from by an Italian publisher in Trieste.
Or a portion of them that dealt with, that had to do with Trieste.
Yeah, I'm interested in more and how they got here.
Oh, okay.
Well, that information's in the collection files.
I can probably get that for you in a second.
You do quote, which is wonderful, you quote Harry Ransom, a letter from Harry Ransom, Jake Schwartz.
Yeah, Jake Schwartz.
And there's some Lou Feldman stuff in there.
Oh, there's a line about Lou Feldman.
Yeah.
I did ask Kathy, if it were possible, to get a, you know, I'm looking at perhaps, in my book, perhaps 30 pages on Texas.
That's a lot.
for a 400-page book, a 100,000-word book, which is what I'm learning.
So, I mean, obviously, I'm not doing a major research investigation, shall we say, of the early days of the formation of the university.
But I really would like to get a little bit of a flavor of the stuff.
And boy, some of those letters that you quote there are really excellent.
Would it be any problem for me to get access to any of these?
Well, you have to understand, there are two different kinds of things that the HRC
Those letters are not in the HRC collection.
They're in the director's file.
But I don't see any problem with quoting that letter.
Plus, there are probably two or three others I could get you that would be of interest.
But they're not up in the library.
They're in my library.
I don't need them today.
If this is something... Which one do you want?
You want that one?
I might agree.
So you've got that one quoted there.
Yeah, well... I'll tell you what you really ought to look at.
You know what I quote is that wonderful
business of Carter's taste and technique and book writing.
You got that?
Make sure you have the second edition.
The second edition?
Well, the second edition is the one where he brings it all up today in the epilogue.
People forget that book.
I'll tell you, the collection I put together, those are in his lectures in 42, weren't they?
But the big, the most interesting thing is what happened since 42 or 46, whatever date, taste and collection comes out.
There's a second edition, covered by Cambridge.
It's not a second edition, it's a second impression with an addenda.
And that's the code, where a lot of what I got about the British attitude toward the American institutions is in there.
So the appendix of the case will tell you.
Yeah.
Harvard's got it, no problem.
OK.
I was going to give you a full reference, but you can get it.
Sure.
I may even have a second.
OK.
If you had a second, then you got what's in there.
All I need to know is that I'm doing a lot of work with Widen.
I really would like a flavor.
I have no wish or desire to examine the whole file on the film like Jake Schwartz.
Gene?
Could you ask Jennifer to bring in my ransom file?
I mean, files.
Yeah, they're just very ransomed correspondents.
I think that I haven't, in the last two days, put together an excellent overview of... Well, hold on, I mean, I told Ray to just get around to whatever you could get around and see.
Well, what did we do, sorry?
Good, good.
About seven or eight hours of tape.
I can't put my dog.
Well, these people can't go on.
Carlton was wonderful.
Oh, he's good.
Yeah.
He's a pro.
Wonderful.
What a story.
Wonderful pro.
He didn't want to be taped, which is good.
He's all about it.
He said, I'm a writer.
He feels very tough to me.
That was fine.
And at the end, I said, well, thank you.
You've now saved me the time of transcribing this one.
He was delightful.
And again, he gave a first-hand account.
Now, here's a guy from Boston.
Everything that's correct says that his collection probably should have gone to Boston University, though, and this is Boston University .
Yet, he chose to come here.
I mean, gave you good reasons.
So that's fine.
Don't you think there's a big difference between us, the other day?
Well, there's a difference between the two.
Yeah, I mean, I just, you're writing a book on this, so I hope you, I mean, I'm not, I mean, I'm,
okay we're talking about the glorious ones that suggested that you paid the assertion that she paid a million dollars for that he put me on it he said he paid about a tenth of that yeah that was a thousand yeah i wonder where he's uh i know that it matters but
It's part of the myth, I guess.
The method, the idea.
Yeah.
Of a bottomless bit of money.
And I guess the suggestion is that if she couldn't exist, the country's million bucks.
or whatever.
I don't know what it suggests.
I suppose.
I don't know.
I can't interpret it either.
It might have been he simply lost a zero.
I don't know.
No, we think I read the quotes.
It was published by Bostonian, his own by Boston University.
That magazine that... Oh, is it?
It was published in... Silver Day credit.
You know the history of that magazine?
I mean, he... If I can see some of the things that...
Not only what you quote here, but if there's any other, you know, you make the choice.
Something that will really give me a... Before you leave, remind Ray.
Okay.
Because he really keeps track of that.
Something that will show that I, you know, indicate that I have something.
That I've done my work.
Sure.
Obviously, if you want to, if you will, allow me to go through the whole file, I'd love that too.
No, I have time to go through four or five.
Well, I've come back early on.
I mean, not that I want to.
You have to understand, those files are very different.
I mean, Manson was never involved in the day-to-day working for the HRC.
He just wasn't.
I mean, he was running a university as well as he was.
I mean, through the whole time he was here, he was either chancellor or vice president or president or graduate dean or vice president for academic affairs.
He was all of those.
So, you know, he wasn't involved in the daily affairs.
You make it very clear in here that it wasn't just L.D.F.
either by the way.
It wasn't.
But there were a number of other, I think, you know, five... Bought by L.D.F.
and sold the L.D.F.
and bought the taxi in the trade, but that's not true.
There were other people in the car.
And you named some of them in here.
Sure.
Those letters wrote us.
The brother was involved later.
But Dr. Ransom clearly got a little... Oh, Schwartz would say, you've been attacked by vultures, you're naive.
What was he doing?
It was his style.
Every letter, he said, but I saved you.
And God, I got that Yates for you for nothing, and then you stole it from me.
And, you know, which is to say, God, I've gotten all these bargains for you and haven't gotten much credit or...
Oh, Schwartz, you know the stories about Schwartz.
Is it Elliot?
He went over to Elliot at Faber and said he was a representative of such and such a prep school and this prep school is the one thing in his life that he loved dearly before he went to war.
He hands Elliot a pen in his books and says the prep school is coming apart and I really want to give these to the prep school so they can sell them what you sign them.
So he takes him over to Colonel Cohen in the Strand Hotel, over there at the Savoy Hotel in the Strand.
He says, look, I've got some things for you.
Here are 10 Eliot videos.
Cohen says, you can't get Eliot presentation copies and figures.
How'd you get these?
And then he goes, who proceeds to tell the story?
Oh, Schwartz was so nice.
Isn't that wonderful?
Schwartz has been known to actually crawl on Rhoda's floor in Barris, and he had no shame.
He's a character.
He's a dentist, you know.
He's a dentist.
Dr. Swartz.
Now, was he kind of an amateur dealer?
Oh, he was a professional.
He was a dealer.
But he basically made the deal for the handling stuff.
Yeah, right, because he sold the handling stuff.
And he had other stuff.
I mean, he was all over.
There was probably a piece in the New York Times I've ever tracked up there about the doctor and the dentist shaking.
Well, Carlton wrote it.
In the Times, yeah.
We were running into all these people that I hear about these wonderful people.
Yeah, it's good.
I don't know what else to... I hope I'm welcome to find you with any additional questions.
Sure.
And should I write you about some of these corresponding things, or Ray?
Ray reminds me.
If you tell Ray, I'll get to it.
I'll go in there and pick out some business for you.
Something that could just be a good way to... Sure.
It was a pioneer of time, I guess.
Oh.
Great time.
This could be a very, very good-spirited book that I'm writing, and we are genuinely impressed by what you've had here.
It's a wonderful place.
The stone, by the way, you've been told was Texas Limes.
It is.
I wonder where that's mining, because that mine is a quarry somewhere here, yeah.
Well, yeah, you know, you have to understand when it came out, too.
We were building in the early 70s, and that means it was post-60s, and that means there was a sense of protecting.
The problem is it's protecting people from getting in rather than people who are in from getting out.
I mean, with all of its sentinel-like qualities, it isn't really
one of the great inventions of security, either.
I mean, it's all right, but it's not, you know, you get a sense that I worry that it isn't welcoming enough.
I don't find that it's any better for you.
Well, the bank of television, I find it less than welcoming, and I don't like that.
And I'd like to have it more welcoming.
But I don't have anything that is stolen from the state.
No, but it's just that students come in and think, God, I just want to look at a book and go through cards and television cameras.
I mean, it is not a warm and welcoming environment, which I would like.
They're tricky, though, the kinds of changes I'd like.
On the other hand, I do a lot of work at Widener, and I get angry at how easy it is to go in and out of there.
Well, I got some...
I'm more interested with the aesthetic than the other one.
I think it looks institutional.
Of course, it is institutional, but I just think there's a way that people aren't fighting.
I'm just going to take a fast look right ahead.
I understood that Ross Perot's block was on the front.
Is that a misconception?
Well, I'll tell you, you know, Ross Perot, it is one of those things.
He could take a straightforward, simple issue and get it as confusing as you could possibly imagine.
It's not always very clear.
Perot advanced the money, because he said Texas ought to have that.
If you try to get what you can get, the university got $4,000, $4 million, $6 million, I'm not sure where, from other people.
Foundations in Texas and people in Texas.
So, whether it was the balance or whether it was the whole thing, I'll tell you what I'll do.
You pay me back for the Ford Center and I'll give that money to the medical center at
whether it was Dallas or where, I'm not sure.
So there were three or four trades going on, and I can't tell you right now whether he traded on the balance of what the university got, whether it was $3 million, $4 million, $5 million, $6 million, I don't know.
Whether, in other words, he gave $8 million.